Now, let's have a look at JSON: JavaScript Object Notation
JSON is easy to explain. I promise, this video is only 3 minutes long.
JSON is lightweight (not as bulky as XML),
text-based (UTF-8 encoding) and
language-independent (despite its name). All modern languages can parse JSON objects or convert their own objects into JSON strings.
JSON is the data exchange format of choice between clients (browser) and servers.
The mime-type of JSON is application/json as you could see when analyzing the ARSnova REST API in Chapter 4.
It was Douglas Crockford who defined the JSON notation in an RFC standard in 2006.
The IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) RFC 7158 represents a second version of this standard.
JSON is a subset of JavaScript (or ECMAScript 262, as it is officially called).
and can be processed easily and without breaking any structures by JavaScript applications.
We will have a look at the syntax and the structure of this data exchange format in a minute.
You will see that the structure is kept very simple.
Compliant browsers support native JSON with two methods on the window object (window.JSON). JSON.parse() converts JSON objects into a JavaScript objects,
JSON.stringify() converts a Javascript object to JSON notation.
One page is sufficient to outline the JSON syntax:
As an outer structure, there's either an object that begins and ends with curly braces
or an array that begins and ends with square brackets.
Within an object, there is there is a collection of key/value pairs. The key is denoted as string.
The value itself can be any sort of data type including another object, i.e. an object can include other objects in a tree structure.
The same is true for arrays and mixed forms as well.
On the internet, you will find a JSON editor at http://www.jsoneditoronline.org.
Using that tool, you can easily build a JSON object or validate the syntax of a JSON object.